@c NOTE: This template.texi shows how to create a texinfo file that is
@c incorporated into maxima.info. See template-standalone.texi for a
@c texinfo file which is accessed apart from maxima.info.

@c NOTE: To bring MYTOPIC into maxima.info, you need to make references
@c to MYTOPIC in 3 places. Search for "lbfgs" in maxima.texi for an example.
@c
@c 1. Under the heading "Additional packages" (line 139 at the moment)
@c    Here you put "MYTOPIC:: Transmogrification a la Smith and Jones."
@c
@c 2. Under the heading "The Detailed Node Listing" (line 178 at the moment)
@c    Here you copy the @menu which is defined in this file.
@c
@c 3. In the @node list (line 544 at the moment)
@c    You MUST fix up the preceding and succeeding @nodes when you
@c    create a new @node MYTOPIC.
@c
@c    @node PRECEDINGTOPIC, MYTOPIC, PRECEDINGPRECEDINGTOPIC, Top
@c    @chapter PRECEDINGTOPIC
@c    @include PRECEDINGTOPIC.texi
@c
@c    @node MYTOPIC, NEXTTOPIC, PRECEDINGTOPIC, Top
@c    @chapter MYTOPIC
@c    @include MYTOPIC.texi
@c
@c    @node NEXTTOPIC, NEXTNEXTTOPIC, MYTOPIC, Top
@c    @chapter NEXTTOPIC
@c    @include NEXTTOPIC.texi


@menu
* Introduction to MYTOPIC::
* Definitions for MYTOPIC::
@end menu

@node Introduction to MYTOPIC, Definitions for MYTOPIC, Top, Top
@section Introduction to MYTOPIC

@code{MYTOPIC} is yadda yadda yadda, foo bar baz quux mumble blurf.

@node Definitions for MYTOPIC, , Introduction to MYTOPIC, Top
@section Definitions for MYTOPIC

@deffn {Function} transmogrify (@var{foo}, @var{bar})

Returns the generalized transmogrificatin of @var{foo} and @var{bar}.
See also @code{frotz}.

@end deffn

@defvr {Variable} frotz
Default value: @code{true}

When @code{frotz} is @code{true},
@code{transmogrify} computes the transmogrification by Smith's algorithm.
Otherwise, the transmogrification is computed by Jones' algorithm.

@end defvr
